---
layout: default
title: 407. Trapping Rain Water II
categories: [leetcode]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
We can use minHeap to solve this problem.

Here are some facts about water trapping:

1. Water needs to be trapped in a "pool", a cell whose height is relatively lower than its four adjacent cells.
2. Water always floods from the globally lowest cell.
3. "Edges" are the cell that assumed not be able to trap water.

And that's why minHeap is a great choice in solving this problem: the root node of a minHeap is gaurantee to be the global minimum.
We begin by allocating a 2D boolean matrix to track whether we've visited a cell or not. 
Next, add four boundaries of the matrix to the minHeap. Those are the cells that are gauranteed to be edges.
Iterate through these edges with our minHeap and check its four adjacent cells.
If the adjacent cell has height less than current cell, that's the pool cell. We bring water level to as high as the current (edge) cell, add to the sum the amount of water the pool cell traps, and then assume it to be an edge.
If the adjacent cell has height greater or equal to current cell, there's no way for the adjacent cell to trap water. Just record its height as it is.
Remember to mark as visited after we check a cell.
Time Complexity: Each cell is only checked once so $$O(n)$$.
<!--more-->

# Java Code:
{% highlight java %}
public class Solution {
    int m, n;
    class Cell implements Comparable<Cell>{
        int x, y, height;
        public Cell(int x, int y, int height) {
            this.x = x;
            this.y = y;
            this.height = height;
        }
        @Override
        public int compareTo(Cell other) {
            return Integer.compare(this.height, other.height);
        }
    }
    int[] dx = {-1, 1, 0, 0};
    int[] dy = {0, 0, -1, 1};
    public int trapRainWater(int[][] heightMap) {
        m = heightMap.length;
        n = (m == 0) ? 0: heightMap[0].length;
        
        if( heightMap == null || m <= 2 || n <= 2)
            return 0;
        
        boolean[][] visited = new boolean[m][n];
        
        Queue<Cell> pq = new PriorityQueue<Cell>();
        
        for(int i=0; i<n; i++) {
            pq.add( new Cell(0, i, heightMap[0][i]) );
            visited[0][i] = true;
            pq.add( new Cell(m-1, i, heightMap[m-1][i]) );
            visited[m-1][i] = true;
        }
        for(int i=0; i<m; i++) {
            pq.add( new Cell(i, 0, heightMap[i][0]) );
            visited[i][0] = true;
            pq.add( new Cell(i, n-1, heightMap[i][n-1]) );
            visited[i][n-1] = true;
        }
        
        int ans = 0;
        while( !pq.isEmpty()) {
            Cell current = pq.poll();
            for(int i=0; i<4; i++) {
                int nx = current.x+dx[i];
                int ny = current.y+dy[i];
                if( nx < 0 || nx >= m || ny < 0 || ny >= n || visited[nx][ny])
                    continue;
                if( heightMap[nx][ny] < current.height) {   //make this cell the same hight as edge
                    ans += (current.height - heightMap[nx][ny]);
                    pq.add( new Cell(nx, ny, current.height) );
                }
                else
                    pq.add( new Cell(nx, ny, heightMap[nx][ny]) );    //it's already an edge    
                visited[nx][ny] = true;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}