---
layout: default
title: RESOLVE
categories: project
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
**RESOLVE** (Ranking Emotional SynOnyms for language Learners’ Vocabulary Expansion) is a NLP sentiment analysis project sponsored by National Science Council, Taiwan.  
The motivation of this project is that ESL (English as a Second Langauge) students are found to have difficulties in **emotion wording** in their writings. Most students tend to use what we call **boring** words to describe their emotion feeling, such as happy, sad, angry, etc.  
The fact that ESL students have a hard time distinguish the nuance among simliar emotion words is the reason causing their preference in using boring words. Traditionally, the best way to help students in such wording difficulty is via extensive reading: by showing students the example context and circumstances of how each emotion word would be used to training their emotion wording skills.  
Besides traditional approaches, we are wondering whether modern NLP techniques can help ESL students as well. In the traditional approach, human brains learn and conclude the scenario when a emotion word should be used. This process is analogous to machine learning process: a classifier is training with a corpus consisting of emotion word contexts; emotion words are classes to be categoried and contexts surve as clues or features. Hence, in the future when similar context (features) is given, the classifier should be able to decide which class (emotion word) best fits the context. This is the idea behind RESOLVE.  
The details about RESOLVE framework can be found on the following two references:  
Chen, W. F., Chen, M. H., & Ku, L. W. (2015). [Embarrassed or Awkward? Ranking Emotion Synonyms for ESL Learners' Appropriate Wording](http://anthology.aclweb.org/W/W15/W15-06.pdf#page=160). Silver Sponsor, 144-153.  
Chen, W. F., Chen, M. H., Chen, M. L., & Ku, L. W. (2016). [A Computer-Assistance Learning System for Emotional Wording](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7355346/?reload=true). IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 28(5), 1093-1104.  
The RESOLVE system can be tested [here](http://resolve.iis.sinica.edu.tw/).
<!--more-->